5.1.2.  Mailbox Namespace Naming Convention

   By convention, the first hierarchical element of any mailbox name
   which begins with "#" identifies the "namespace" of the remainder of
   the name.  This makes it possible to disambiguate between different
   types of mailbox stores, each of which have their own namespaces.

        For example, implementations which offer access to USENET
        newsgroups MAY use the "#news" namespace to partition the
        USENET newsgroup namespace from that of other mailboxes.
        Thus, the comp.mail.misc newsgroup would have a mailbox
        name of "#news.comp.mail.misc", and the name
        "comp.mail.misc" can refer to a different object (e.g., a
        user's private mailbox).

5.1.3.  Mailbox International Naming Convention

   By convention, international mailbox names in IMAP4rev1 are specified
   using a modified version of the UTF-7 encoding described in [UTF-7].
   Modified UTF-7 may also be usable in servers that implement an
   earlier version of this protocol.

   In modified UTF-7, printable US-ASCII characters, except for "&",
   represent themselves; that is, characters with octet values 0x20-0x25
   and 0x27-0x7e.  The character "&" (0x26) is represented by the
   two-octet sequence "&-".

   All other characters (octet values 0x00-0x1f and 0x7f-0xff) are
   represented in modified BASE64, with a further modification from
   [UTF-7] that "," is used instead of "/".  Modified BASE64 MUST NOT be
   used to represent any printing US-ASCII character which can represent
   itself.






Crispin                     Standards Track                    [Page 19]
 
RFC 3501                         IMAPv4                       March 2003


   "&" is used to shift to modified BASE64 and "-" to shift back to
   US-ASCII.  There is no implicit shift from BASE64 to US-ASCII, and
   null shifts ("-&" while in BASE64; note that "&-" while in US-ASCII
   means "&") are not permitted.  However, all names start in US-ASCII,
   and MUST end in US-ASCII; that is, a name that ends with a non-ASCII
   ISO-10646 character MUST end with a "-").

   The purpose of these modifications is to correct the following
   problems with UTF-7:

      1) UTF-7 uses the "+" character for shifting; this conflicts with
         the common use of "+" in mailbox names, in particular USENET
         newsgroup names.

      2) UTF-7's encoding is BASE64 which uses the "/" character; this
         conflicts with the use of "/" as a popular hierarchy delimiter.

      3) UTF-7 prohibits the unencoded usage of "\"; this conflicts with
         the use of "\" as a popular hierarchy delimiter.

      4) UTF-7 prohibits the unencoded usage of "~"; this conflicts with
         the use of "~" in some servers as a home directory indicator.

      5) UTF-7 permits multiple alternate forms to represent the same
         string; in particular, printable US-ASCII characters can be
         represented in encoded form.

      Although modified UTF-7 is a convention, it establishes certain
      requirements on server handling of any mailbox name with an
      embedded "&" character.  In particular, server implementations
      MUST preserve the exact form of the modified BASE64 portion of a
      modified UTF-7 name and treat that text as case-sensitive, even if
      names are otherwise case-insensitive or case-folded.

      Server implementations SHOULD verify that any mailbox name with an
      embedded "&" character, used as an argument to CREATE, is: in the
      correctly modified UTF-7 syntax, has no superfluous shifts, and
      has no encoding in modified BASE64 of any printing US-ASCII
      character which can represent itself.  However, client
      implementations MUST NOT depend upon the server doing this, and
      SHOULD NOT attempt to create a mailbox name with an embedded "&"
      character unless it complies with the modified UTF-7 syntax.

      Server implementations which export a mail store that does not
      follow the modified UTF-7 convention MUST convert to modified
      UTF-7 any mailbox name that contains either non-ASCII characters
      or the "&" character.




Crispin                     Standards Track                    [Page 20]
 
RFC 3501                         IMAPv4                       March 2003


           For example, here is a mailbox name which mixes English,
           Chinese, and Japanese text:
           ~peter/mail/&U,BTFw-/&ZeVnLIqe-

           For example, the string "&Jjo!" is not a valid mailbox
           name because it does not contain a shift to US-ASCII
           before the "!".  The correct form is "&Jjo-!".  The
           string "&U,BTFw-&ZeVnLIqe-" is not permitted because it
           contains a superfluous shift.  The correct form is
           "&U,BTF2XlZyyKng-".
